doc: samples: SUIT: Update SMP Transfer Sample guide (#18656)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/suit/smp_transfer/README.rst

You need the nRF Device Manager app for SUIT update over Bluetooth Low Energy:

* `nRF Device Manager mobile app for Android`_
  (The minimum required version is v2.0.0.)

* `nRF Device Manager mobile app for iOS`_
  (The minimum required version is v1.7.0.)

> For a SUIT update over UART through the SMP protocol, you need to install SUIT commands to nrfutil by ``nrfutil install suit`` command.

Reviewer: Should we also add some minimal version of nrfutil suit?

(v2.8.0-rc1.1) C:\ncs_new\v2.8.0-rc1.1> nrfutil suit --version
nrfutil-suit 0.8.1 (6433d59 2024-10-11)

Author: Yes, will add it.

> For a SUIT update over UART through the SMP protocol, you need to install SUIT commands to nrfutil by ``nrfutil install suit`` command (the minimum required version is v0.8.1) .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To perform a SUIT update over UART using the SMP protocol, install SUIT commands in nrfutil by running the ``nrfutil install suit`` command (requires nrfutil version 0.8.1 or higher).
```

Overview
********

The sample uses one of the following methods to perform a firmware update on the nRF54H20 SoC, featuring Nordic Semiconductor’s implementation of the SUIT procedure:

* Bluetooth Low Energy and the nRF Device Manager app

> * UART and nrfutil suit commands

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* UART and ``nrfutil suit`` commands
```

**************

LED 0:

>     The number of blinks set by ``CONFIG_N_BLINKS`` Kconfig option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The ``CONFIG_N_BLINKS`` Kconfig option sets the number of blinks.
```

>     The default is set to ``1`` to blink once, indicating "Version 1", and can be incremented to indicate an update to e.g. "Version 2".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The default is set to ``1``, causing a single blink to indicate *Version 1*. 
    This value can be incremented to represent an update, such as setting it to ``2`` to indicate *Version 2*.
```

   The sample configuration change the number of blinks on **LED 0**.
   The default value is ``1``.

.. _CONFIG_BT_DEVICE_NAME:

CONFIG_BT_DEVICE_NAME - Configuration for Bluetooth Device Name.

>    The sample configuration change advertised Bluetooth name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   The sample configuration changes the advertised Bluetooth name.
```

>    The default value is ``SUIT SMP Sample``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Its default value is ``SUIT SMP Sample``.
```

            west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -- -DFILE_SUFFIX=bt -DCONFIG_N_BLINKS=1

>          If you want to further configure your sample, see :ref:`configure_application` for additional information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
         See :ref:`configure_application` for information on additional configuration options.
```

      1. |open_terminal_window_with_environment|
      #. Navigate to |sample path|.
      #. Build the sample using the following command, with the following Kconfig options set:

         .. code-block:: console

>              west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -DCONFIG_N_BLINKS=1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             west build -p -b nrf54h20dk/nrf54h20/cpuapp -- -DCONFIG_N_BLINKS=1
```

Author: Corrected.

      1. |open_terminal_window_with_environment|
      #. Navigate to |sample path|.

>       #. Build the sample using the following command, with the following Kconfig options set:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      #. Build the sample using the following command, ensuring the specified Kconfig options are set:
```

            .. figure:: /images/suit_smp_select_advanced.png
               :alt: Select ADVANCED

>          #. Click on the :guilabel:`Read` button within the **Images** section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
         #. Tap on the :guilabel:`Read` button within the *Images* section.
```

Reviewer 2: Could you change any instance of "click" to "tap"? It's a phone app interface

Author: OK

            .. figure:: /images/suit_smp_select_image_read.png
               :alt: Select Read from Images

>             After that SUIT Manifests list will appear in the section, scroll down and you should see that for APP_ROOT "Sequence number: 0x1" is printed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            After the list of SUIT manifests appears in the section, scroll down to verify that ``Sequence number: 0x1`` is displayed for ``APP_ROOT``.
```

            .. figure:: /images/suit_smp_firmware_upload_complete.png
               :alt: Firmware UPLOAD COMPLETE

      #. Click on the :guilabel:`Confirm` button within the **Images** section

         .. figure:: /images/suit_smp_firmware_upload_confirm.png
            :alt: Firmware UPLOAD CONFIRM

      #. The update is now applied and **LED 0** flashes twice now to indicate "Version 2" of the firmware
      #. Under the **Images** section, click on :guilabel:`Read`.

         In the section, at the bottom of SUIT Manifests list you should see that for APP_ROOT "Sequence number: 0x2" is printed.

         .. figure:: /images/suit_smp_show_manifest_02.png
            :alt: Show manifests after update

   .. group-tab:: Over UART

      1. Upload the signed envelope:

         a. Read the sequence number of the installed root manifest with nrfutil:

            .. code-block:: console

>                nrfutil suit manifests --serial-port=/dev/ttyACM0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               nrfutil suit manifests --serial-port COM4
```

                     digest: a0d99d177511ce908aaa7b74a8c595fc06060673976d09466b0d2c26f6547e2d
                     digestAlgorithm: sha256
                     signatureCheck: signature check not performed
                     sequenceNumber: 1
                     semantic version: 0.1.0
               role(22) (Application Local Manifest)
                     classId: 08c1b599-55e8-5fbc-9e76-7bc29ce1b04d (nRF54H20_sample_app)
                     vendorId: 7617daa5-71fd-5a85-8f94-e28d735ce9f4 (nordicsemi.com)
                     downgradePreventionPolicy: downgrade allowed
                     independentUpdateabilityPolicy: independent update forbidden
                     signatureVerificationPolicy: signature verification disabled
                     digest: f391a4e298e0fc76d3b5d3044e379255484a2afde5e57d03dee5e07c9b4f558d
                     digestAlgorithm: sha256
                     signatureCheck: signature check not performed
                     sequenceNumber: 1
                     semantic version: 0.1.0

         #. Upload the image with nrfutil:

            .. code-block:: console

>                nrfutil suit upload-envelope --serial-port=/dev/ttyACM0 --envelope-file build/DFU/root.suit

Reviewer: Should we also show first to customers how to check COM port where DK is connected? I mean "nrfutil device list"

Author: Yes, will add it.

>                nrfutil suit upload-envelope --serial-port=/dev/ttyACM0 --envelope-file build/DFU/root.suit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               nrfutil suit upload-envelope --serial-port COM4 --envelope-file build/DFU/root.suit
```

            You should see an output similar to the following logged on UART:

            .. code-block:: console

>                [00:00:07] ###### 100% [/dev/ttyACM0] Uploaded

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               [00:00:07] ###### 100% [COM4] Uploaded
```

Author: Will change to COM7 like in nrfutil docs

      #. If you have built the application with :ref:`external flash support <nrf54h_suit_sample_extflash>`, upload the cache partition to the external flash using the following command:

         .. code-block:: console

>             nrfutil suit upload-cache-raw --serial-port=/dev/ttyACM0 --cache-file build/dfu_cache_partition_1.bin --pool 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            nrfutil suit upload-cache-raw --serial-port COM4 --cache-file build/dfu_cache_partition_1.bin --pool 2
```

Author: Will change to COM7 like in nrfutil docs

            .. note::
               the ``--pool 2`` parameter uploads to DFU cache partition 1 (where image 0 is the envelope and image 1 is the cache partition 0).

      #. Start the installation of the new firmware as follows:

         .. code-block:: console

            nrfutil suit install --serial-port=/dev/ttyACM0

      #. Read the sequence number of the uploaded root manifest with nrfutil:

         .. code-block:: console

>              nrfutil suit manifests --serial-port=/dev/ttyACM0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
             nrfutil suit manifests --serial-port COM4
```

Author: Will change to COM7 like in nrfutil docs

            .. figure:: /images/suit_smp_firmware_upload_complete.png
               :alt: Firmware UPLOAD COMPLETE

      #. Click on the :guilabel:`Confirm` button within the **Images** section

         .. figure:: /images/suit_smp_firmware_upload_confirm.png
            :alt: Firmware UPLOAD CONFIRM

>       #. The update is now applied and **LED 0** flashes twice now to indicate "Version 2" of the firmware

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      #. The update is now applied, and **LED 0** flashes twice to indicate *Version 2* of the firmware.

      #. Under the **Images** section, click on :guilabel:`Read`.

>          In the section, at the bottom of SUIT Manifests list you should see that for APP_ROOT "Sequence number: 0x2" is printed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
         In the section displaying the SUIT manifests list, scroll to the bottom to verify that "Sequence number: 0x2" is shown for ``APP_ROOT``.
```

         .. figure:: /images/suit_smp_show_manifest_02.png
            :alt: Show manifests after update

   .. group-tab:: Over UART

>       The following commands are performed on the device connected to the serial port COM7 on Windows (run nrfutil device list to check the serial port name for your OS):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Perform the following on the device connected to the serial port COM7 on Windows.
      To verify the serial port name for your operating system, use the ``nrfutil device list`` command.
```

                     independentUpdateabilityPolicy: independent update forbidden
                     signatureVerificationPolicy: signature verification disabled
                     digest: f391a4e298e0fc76d3b5d3044e379255484a2afde5e57d03dee5e07c9b4f558d
                     digestAlgorithm: sha256
                     signatureCheck: signature check not performed
                     sequenceNumber: 1
                     semantic version: 0.1.0

         #. Upload the image with nrfutil:

            .. code-block:: console

               nrfutil suit upload-envelope --serial-port COM7 --envelope-file root.suit

            You should see an output similar to the following logged on UART::

            .. code-block:: console

               [00:00:07] ###### 100% [COM7] Uploaded

      #. If you have built the application with :ref:`external flash support <nrf54h_suit_sample_extflash>`, upload the cache partition to the external flash using the following command:

         .. code-block:: console

            nrfutil suit upload-cache-raw --serial-port COM7 --cache-file dfu_cache_partition_1.bin --pool 2

         .. note::

>             the ``--pool 2`` parameter uploads to DFU cache partition 1 (where image 0 is the envelope and image 1 is the cache partition 0).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            The ``--pool 2`` parameter uploads to DFU cache partition 1, where image 0 represents the envelope, and image 1 represents cache partition 0.
```
